Gen AI  Day 1  pip install groq ollama python-dotenv 	groq — official Python library to call Groq's API
	ollama — official Python library to call your local Ollama models
	python-dotenv — lets us load API keys from a .env file instead of hardcoding them
 git config --global commit.gpgsign false
	Git was configured to cryptographically sign every commit using GPG, and the signing tool (pinentry) is failing to prompt for your GPG passphrase properly in 	 this terminal environment. So turn off commit signing
 Day 2

async def marks a pausable function, await is the pause point, gather is what makes multiple things actually run at once concurrent async calls are faster than sequential ones,


Day3 FastAPI - web server framework, with this python can receive HTTP requests
While FastAPI is the framework you use to build the endpoints and logic, Uvicorn is the actual engine (the web server) that hosts your application and listens for incoming web requests.  Day 4 Task: Learn prompt basics: system prompt, few-shot, temperature — apply to your endpoint.  1)Every conversation with a LLM has  at least 2 voices , system prompt and user prompt system message -> set by the developer , sort of a job description of what the LLM is and should do. Ex: you are an expert in statistics, you should compute with formulas and don’t make up information  user prompt: actual request or a question from the person using the application  so without a system prompt, model uses it’s default behavior, if the user gives one, then it is changing the tone and role of the LLM.   2) Few-shot prompting -> instead of just describing what we want , we give the example of the output needed to the model, ex: I want answer in a json format and give  key pair dictionary. Zero-shot is no example with just instructions  3) Temperature -> This controls how random/creative v/s predictable model’s choice of words are on scale of 0 to 1 upto 2. 	temperature = 0, model picks mostly same words for the response, ex: factual lookup or code generation , where consistency matters more than creativity.
	temperature = 0.9, model picks less likely but reasonable  words, but less predictable words. To have more creativity over consistency for brainstormings, casual chats higher temperature doesn't just add stylistic variety, it can shift which details the model chooses to surface, which matters if you need consistent, auditable outputs

Day5: Streaming Normally when giving an output or a function is returning something, it will wait for model’s entire output and then give all at once. So instead of this streaming the output piece(token) by piece is more engaging rather than sitting at the blank screen. To achieve this , instead of return we use yield at the end of the function, this turns the function into a generator, which hands back small pieces of data one at a time, pausing in between each piece, instead of computing everything and handing it back in one lump. Streaming response sends the data chunk by chunk as it's produced(this is what actually makes it "stream") and is what takes those yielded pieces and actually forwards them over the network connection as they arrive.  Day6: Containerize the FastAPI app with Docker Python uses a requirements.txt to tell the docker what packages to install in the container, in this file names of packages are mentioned. also we should not bake the env files with secrets to the image, as we push it to GitHub, we pass the env variables into the container during runtime rather than build time. since we are working in a venv , so instead of memorizing of looking for packages installed manually  pip freeze > requirements.txt  pip freeze lists every package currently installed in your active (venv), along with exact version numbers, and “> requirements.txt” saves that list into a new file.  always keep copy instruction for requirements.txt file in docker file in the beginning as docker caches the layers while building, and requirements do not change often as compared code.  like .gitignore, we have .dockerignore where we can keep unwanted files and folders from the directory where copy everything inside docker file(ex: COPY . .), so that image doesn’t become huge interns of size.   Week2:  Day1: Embeddings & Vector Search Since Computers are good at numbers, we use embedding I.e list of numbers(vectors) to send texts to LLM, this list of numbers reprints meaning of texts , not its literal words. It compares the texts semantically ex: I love my dog and my pups is the best will have same list of numbers, coz these words are semantically similar. On the other hand  I love my dog  and stock market crashed will have different embeddings. semantics means the full meaning of text (topic, relationships, intent, context, and yes, sentiment too) — embeddings try to capture all of this into that number-vector, not just one narrow dimension like tone. Computers are good in comparing numbers mathematically, measuring how "close" or "far apart" two lists of numbers are is a solved, fast. So embedding converts the words in to list of numbers and makes it easy.  So consider we have an app and which has documents, user asks a question, now al the docs she be converted to embeddings and the question as well. And compare the question embedding with doc one and which sits closer is how it she be answered, rather than comparing using key words in the question and documents.For this we need a embedding model which is trained on converting texts to list of numbers.  pip install sentence-transformers sentence-transformers library, which lets us use a small pretrained embedding model completely free, running locally — same "no cost" pattern as Ollama. every piece of text we pass into the model gets converted into a single vector(lists of numbers) of exactly 384 numbers.(for this  embedding model “all-MiniLM-L6-v2
“). Its architectural design, OpenAI's larger embedding models produce 1536 or more. Generally, more dimensions can capture more nuanced meaning, but cost more storage/compute If you pass a list with 2 strings, you get 2 separate vectors. Input List:
[
  "Python lists are versatile.",  ---> Processed as one text ---> Vector 1 (384 numbers)
  "I love coding in Python."      ---> Processed as one text ---> Vector 2 (384 numbers)
]  Day9: Qdrant  Qdrant is a vector database — a specialized kind of database built to store embeddings (those number-lists  generated for texts) and let you search through them by meaning/similarity, not exact keyword matching.
when you create a "collection" in Qdrant (think of it like a table in a normal database), you have to tell Qdrant upfront how many dimensions each vector will have — e.g., "every vector I store here will have exactly 384 numbers." Qdrant needs this to organize its internal search index correctly. If you later tried inserting a vector with a different dimension count (say, from a different embedding model that outputs 768 numbers), it would reject it — dimension count has to match exactly, every time, for one collection. Also in Qdrant we store the vector with original text , rather than the raw vector as a payload and also It needs what similarity method to use(Ex: we used cosine to get the similairty score btw the embeddings) 
Install the Qdrant Python client: pip install qdrant-client

Select the model initiate the sentences list connect to quadrant client running in docker create a collection in qdrant by mentioning the name, vector size and similarity math 
Crate embeddings for sentences list since in qdrant everything we store(every single thing) is a point and point is bundle of point ID, vector(Actual embedding) and the payload(human readable info attached to the vector). Using PointStruct we package  point ID,vector and payload into a point object, formatted as qdrant expects.  so when we create embeddings for sentences it returns a numpy array, but qdrant expects a python list, so we use .tolist() to convert the embeddings from numpy array to a list